<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="all" href="/style.css">
    <title>MGMT308 W01</title>
</head>
<body>

MGMT308
Prof. Jin Kim

W01

- Introduction: Management and Managers Defined
- Management as a Social Function and Liberal Art

# Introduction: Management and Managers Defined

The world we live in is based on organizations. Businesses and schools are two examples. When an organization grows in size, so does complexity. When complexity grows what you do within the organization has to be in cooperation with others, synchronized with others, and communicated with others. For a complex organization to do this, you need managers and management.

What is management?

The definition of management includes a lot of things: a function or task, the people who manages, a social position within the organization, authority, a discipline, and a field of study.

People manage.

Who are managers?

Managers contribute to an organization. Managers are responsible for the results of an organization. Managers are sometimes responsible for the work of other people and sometimes not; some managers are individual contributors who work by themselves most of the time.

Before the power and authority of managers were emphasized.

The work of a manager:
- planning
- integrating
- measuring
- developing people

Integrating is important because people work in organizations and with other people.

Managers have responsibility for contribution. Some managers are true specialists where their allegience is to their technical or professional skill, rather than to their organization.

Managers are people who perform management tasks, whether or not they have power over others.

What do managers do?

Most managers spend most of their time on things that are not managing. Here are five basic operations that managers do:

1. Managers set objectives. She sets objectives. She decides what needs to be done to reach those objectives. She communictes the objectives and what needs to be done. Setting objectives is a problem of achieving balances: between organization and individual, immediate needs and the future, desireable ends and available means. Setting objectives require analytical and synthesizing ability.
2. Managers organize. He classifies work, divides work into activities, and then into manageable jobs. He groups these jobs into an organization structure. Organizing demands the most economical use of scarce resources, based on justice and integrity.
3. Managers motivate and communicate. Managers motivate through pay, placement, and promotion. Managers integrate by communicating up, down, and sideways. This skill is primarily social. Justice is primary; economy is secondary. Integrity is primary; analytical ability is secondary.
4. Managers measure. Managers establish targets to focus performance of the organization and of the individual. Measuring requires analytical ability. The goal of measurement is self-control. 
5. Managers develop people. A manager who develops subordinates in the right direction, helps him to grow. Developing people requires integrity of character. Managers who succeed in developing people in the right direction demand exacting workmanship of themselves and other people. They set high standards and expect that they will live up to them. They consider only what is right, not who is right. They always consider integrity more important than intellectual brilliance.

Numbers 1 through 4 are formal and apply to every manager and to everything a manager does, and can be used to appraise her own skill and performance and to systematically improve herself and her performance.

There is one qualification a manager must bring: character.

# Management as a Social Function and Liberal Art

Management is a practice, not a science.

Every developed country is a society of institutions: healthcare, education, environmental protection, R&D, economic development, etc. Modern societies' survival and performance depends on these institutions, so do everyone who works at there. And managers determine the survival and performance of institutions.

Managers can improve their performance in all areas of management and at all levels of management by systematically studying of principles, acquiring organized knowledge, and analyzing performance in all areas of work.

The ultimate test of management is performance. Management is a practice. Management is not limited to people with special academic degrees. The function of management, the work of management, its tasks and its dimensions, are universal and are the same from country to country. Of course, the way work is performed is influenced by a country's unique traditions and history. Management is a social practice, embedded in the tradition of values, customs, beliefs, and in governmental and political systems. Management is also culture.

There are management-specific managerial skills such as communication within organizations, making decisions under uncerctain conditions, and strategic planning. Understanding the fundamentals of management is a prerequisite to becoming an effective manager.

Again, management is a practice, not knowledge but performance. Management's practice is based both on knowledge and on responsibility.
</body>
</html>