W06
TOC:
Productive Work and Achieving Worker
- Making Work Productive and the Worker Achieving

# Make Work Productive and Make Workers Achieve

Work. Is it a good thing? A bad thing? Pleasurable? Boring? Exciting? Tiring?

Think of cooking. Let's say you are a cook. You work from 6 am to 9 pm in the back of a small restaurant, without air conditioning, 7 days a week, doing the same thing all day and every day. You work as fast as you can. The waiters tell you to hurry. Some dishes don't come out the way customers want. The owner yells at you. What might cooking mean to you? Exciting? Excruciating? This is that kind of "work" that is quite negative.

But: let's say you're cooking, for your new special friend. There is music playing. The weather is perfect. You're making your friend's favorite dish, along with some appetizers, and you picked out the perfect dessert. Oh, and you filled a vase with a dozen freshly-cut long-stem red roses. You are cooking. You are working. But how you see cooking as work is vastly different from the situation before where you are cooking at the back of the restaurant.

The same "work" is not really the same. The first is work; the second isn't really work at all.

What is the difference?

Your frame of mind.

The second scenario can easily be in the mind of cook in the first scenario. And when that happens, the first can become quite enjoyable. Not easy, of course, but not impossible.

## Self-Motivation & Self-Direction

When you frame your mind in a way that makes work enjoyable, you are self-motivating yourself. You can self-direct, meaning you don't need anyone to direct your thoughts and actions. In our example, you can find ways to cook faster by prepping the ingredients ahead of time. You can also work with managers to limit the number of dishes so that each dish can be made faster and better. And remind management that in general 80% of revenues come from 20% of the menu. By reducing the number of dishes you can significantly reduce complexity and reduce costs, while improving profits. Management will like you and perhaps even hire sous chefs so they can learn from you.

# Managing the Work and Worker in Knowledge Work

Productive knowledge workers require:
* Identifying the Task: What needs to be done?
* Self-management
* Continuous Innovation
* Continuous Learning / Continuous Teaching
* Quality & Quantity Output

Productivity in knowledge work must first achieve quality: not a minimum level of quality but optimum level of quality.

Take for example a medical lab that analyzes blood tests. The most important productivity is now many test results are valid and reliable. Of secondary importance is how many tests can be run through the machines.

In order to determine the optimum level of quality, we first need to know what the task is.

## What is the Task?

What is your task? What should your task be? What should be your contribution?

The first requirement for a knowledge worker to be productive is to know what the task is and what the task is  not. Once you know what the task is, it is important to eliminate everything else, so that the knowledge worker can concentrate on the task.

What gets in the way of accomplishing your task? What should be eliminated so that you can concentrate on your task?

When you define your task and eliminate distractions, the productivity of knowledge workers increases exponentially.

Let's go back to the cook. The cook should focus on cooking. The cook should not be going out to get groceries. The cook should not be cleaning the tables. The cook's task is to cook dishes: quality dishes that are beautiful, delicious, and nutritious, and quickly.

## Self-Management

Knowledge workers must be responsible for their own contributions. The cook must be responsible for the quality and quantity of the dishes that come out of the kitchen. If the cook cooks too slow, customer satisfaction will go down. If the cook cooks dishes that are not beautiful, delicious, and nutritious, customer satisfaction will also go down. The cook must take responsibility for her own contribution.

In the case of the cook, we need to ask: What is quality?

For food, quality can be a lot of things. Quality can be the nutritional content. To maximize nutritional content, the cook must require the grocery buyer to purchase non-GMO, organic produce. To maximize beauty, the cook must learn how to plate: color combinations, texture combinations, a proper combination of sizes and shapes. To maximize taste, the cook must learn the different combinations of tastes that the human tongue enjoys experiencing and how to bring that about through temperature and different ways of preparing the ingredients.

## Continuous Innovation

To find the optimal quality and quantity the knowledge worker must always seek to innovate. Continuous innovation is not a nice-to-have, but a must-have. The cook must continue to find innovative solutions to optimize the quality of her contribution. Once the quality is optimized, she must continue to innovate so that optimum quality is maintained over time.

## Continuous Learning and Continuous Teaching

Only through continuous life-long learning can a knowledge worker maintain his and her ability to contribute meaningfully to an organization. In larger organizations the knowlege worker with more knowledge will need to teach those who lack knowledge so that the organization can continue to grow in "success" however the organization has defined it.

Only the knowlege worker himself or herself can know what the task is. It is not easy to define the task that needs to be accomplished. Once that task is made clear, all distractions must be eliminated so that the knowledge worker can concentrate on achieving the task.

Productive knowledge workers are those who self-manage. They take full responsiblity for the quality and quantity of work that is achieved. The cook takes complete responsibility for how delicious, nutritious, and presentable a dish is. And the cook must continue to innovate so that the dishes are more delicious, more beautiful, and more nutritious. The cook must work towards an optimal solution and once achieved must continue to learn to maintain it.

Not only must a knowledge worker continue to learn, he or she must continue to teach especially within an organization so that those who lack his or her knowledge may gain it and continue to contribute toward the success of the organization.